---
title: FAQ
permalink: "/faq/"
position: 3
layout: info
---

## What are the kinds of surgical procedures and services do you offer? ##

Dr. Lewis performs all types of plastic and reconstructive surgery. He has advanced training in aesthetic (cosmetic) surgery and that is an area of specific interest.  He routinely performs facial cosmetic surgery including facelifts, blepharoplasty, rhinoplasty and brow lift surgery. Breast augmentation, reductions, breast lifts along with tummy tucks and liposuction are common procedures for Dr. Lewis. Additionally, Dr. Lewis is experienced and trained to perform reconstructive surgery and hand surgery. Dr. Lewis helps provide call coverage for St. Elizabeth Health Center (a level I trauma center) in the plastic surgery department. He typically is asked to  manage all forms of reconstructive trauma from hand injuries, animal bites, industrial injuries and motor vehicle injuries. Dr. Lewis routinely treats skin cancer and skin cancer reconstruction and skin reductive surgery following weight loss. He is also trained in non-invasive in office procedures such as injectable fillers, botulinum toxin injections. Dr. Lewis also routinely performs breast reconstruction following surgery for breast cancer. Dr. Lewis is a strong supporter of the Joni Abdu Comprehensive Breast Care Center in Youngstown affiliated with St. Elizabeth Health Center. If you have any questions regarding procedures that Dr. Lewis may perform please call the office directly.

## What are your costs? Will my insurance cover the costs? ##

Everyone’s situation is unique and my office stands ready to discuss any concerns or questions you have about payment and fees. Also, please discuss any questions you have about fees and payments with Dr. Lewis directly. Open communication between patients and Dr. Lewis office is paramount. You may call the office at any time during normal business hours and inquire as to pricing for a particular procedure. Remember that even though you believe you may be a candidate for a particular procedure, you may learn more about the propriety of that procedure for your individual needs after discussion and evaluation with Dr. Lewis. The costs that may be quoted to you over the phone are ‘estimates’ and your individual case may be priced differently based upon your evaluation by Dr. Lewis.
Dr. Lewis participates with most major medical insurance plans. However, please call the office to confirm that information. Dr. Lewis is a participating provider with traditional Medicare and Medicaid. We will attempt to seek pre-authorization in appropriate situations for what might be considered an insurance covered procedure. Please take an active role in understanding your particular insurance coverage and co-pays. Elective, cosmetic (self pay) procedures do require pre payment prior to surgery. Those specific details will be reviewed with you in advance of any procedure. Dr. Lewis participates with M-lend and Care Credit. Visa and MasterCard are also accepted at the office.

## How do I choose a qualified plastic surgeon? ##

This is one of the most important questions you could ask. Your level of confidence in the doctor you choose is crucial. So please take all the time you need to carefully consider your options in deciding upon the plastic surgeon that is right for you. If you have questions or concerns after any office visit be sure to write them down and get them answered. Don’t feel awkward about getting a second opinion, especially when it comes to a plastic surgical procedure. Plastic surgery popularity has soared recently. More and more doctors are trying to get into the business. Any licensed physician (and even some dentists and chiropractors) can call themselves a “cosmetic surgeon.” Please be sure and look past what they are describing themselves as and be critical of their credentials. Choosing a doctor that is a member of the American Society of Plastic Surgeons (R) (ASPS) is the first step in ensuring quality care and outcomes. Ask several of your friends and/or any nurse or medical practitioner you may know who they recommend. Also, if you have to wait before seeing your surgeon, be patient. Call early and plan ahead.
Here are a few very specific issues to look into the research before choosing your plastic surgeon.
* Make sure your surgeon is certified by the American Board of Plastic Surgery (ABPS) – the ONLY board recognized the the American Board of Medical Specialties (ABMS) in Plastic Surgery. Don’t be fooled by other “boards” and “societies” that are NOT recognized by the ABMS.
* Make sure your surgeon is a graduate of an accredited medical school.

* Make sure your surgeon has completed at least five years of surgical training after medical school with a minimum of two years in Plastic Surgery.
* Be certain your surgeon is trained and experienced in ALL plastic surgical procedures, including breast, body, face and reconstruction.
* Be certain your surgeon is a member of the American Society of Plastic Surgeons (ASPS). Look for the symbol which is displayed on this website. The ASPS is the largest plastic surgery organization in the world.
* Operates only in accredited facilities. If you are having surgery (other than minor procedures) in someone’s office be certain to ask and confirm that facility’s accreditation.
* Has been granted privileges to perform the specific procedure you are interested by a hospital.
* Adheres to a strict code of ethics.
* Fulfills continuing medical education requirements. Also participates in maintenance of certification protocols as required by the American Board of Plastic Surgery.

## I’ve decided on elective surgery. What is my first step? ##
Congratulations on your decision! It is very common for patients that undergo elective cosmetic surgery to research their decision for months to years prior to the actual date.  Obviously, you need to find your surgeon. Please refer to the “How do I find a qualified plastic surgeon” section of this website for specific things to look for in your surgeon. To schedule an appointment with Dr. Lewis you will need to call the office at: 330-533-6999. Please remember that typically there is a waiting period to get into see Dr. Lewis. With that in mind, call well ahead of the time that you would ideally anticipate having surgery. Do your research and write down your questions for Dr. Lewis prior to your appointment.
I’m concerned about privacy. Will my surgery be confidential?
Absolutely! Your privacy is of utmost importance to Dr. Lewis and his staff. Your records, including any potential photographs are exclusively private and confidential. No information is ever transmitted over the phone regarding any patients care unless it is to that individual patient. Dr. Lewis’ office staff have years of experience in maintaining and preserving privacy and confidentiality in this setting. The office also offers an alternative entrance for any patient that wishes to come and go from the office without entering the waiting room. Please ask specifically for that opportunity and you will be directed appropriately.


## What different types of skin care products do you sell? ##

Dr. Lewis works directly with June Hileman, a certified aesthetician. June see her clients in Dr. Lewis’ office and consults directly with Dr. Lewis on patient care and skin care recommendations. There is a specific line of skin care products that may be recommended to an individual patient based upon their specific needs. June also performs chemical peels in the office of varying strengths. If you are considered a candidate for even a stronger chemical peel, such as a TCA peel, that would be performed by Dr. Lewis.  June also works with younger patients in conjunction with Dr. Lewis to help control, manage and treat acne and acne related scarring. Please feel free to call June directly 330-507-2627 to set up a consultation with her at your convenience.